Create gtkCustomTheme.md (#11)
swt-initiative31/documents: results/gtkCustomTheme.md

# Custom theming support by GTK

GTK (GIMP Toolkit) provides robust support for theming, allowing users and developers to customize the appearance of GTK-based applications. 

**GTK provides a theme engine** that renders widgets based on the theme selected. Themes are usually defined using CSS (Cascading Style Sheets), where colors, borders, sizes, fonts, and other visual properties are defined.

**Theme Files:** Custom GTK themes are typically stored in directories like `~/.themes` (Linux) or system-wide locations such as `/usr/share/themes`.

> On Windows it is located in `C:\msys64\mingw64\share\themes` when Msys2 (mingw64) is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On Windows they are located in `C:\msys64\mingw64\share\themes` when Msys2 (mingw64) is used.
```

**Theme format:** GTK+ 3.x and GTK+ 4.x - These modern versions use CSS for styling. Style rules are defined in gtk.css files, allowing much more flexibility.

**GTK Theme Application:** 
To apply a custom theme in GTK, use the `GTK_THEME` environment variable or configure the settings in the `~/.config/gtk-3.0/settings.ini` file.
GTK automatically detects themes placed in specific directories like `~/.themes` or `/usr/share/themes` or `C:\msys64\mingw64\share\themes` (on Windows with Msys2 and mingw64).

**Eclipse SWT and GTK Custom themes**

  - **SWT on Linux :**
     +  Download custom GTK3/GTK4 themes. (I did it from https://www.pling.com/) . Place it under `/usr/share/themes` location and unzip.

         ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/64d97283-6960-446a-a493-16d3e2e97a1d)

     +   Add `GTK_THEME` environment variable with the value being the name of the themes folder (Example : Dracula) in the run configuration of GTK application(Eclipse SWT Application or Control example or Snippets).

>           ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/bf8190c4-2585-490e-b3af-6c16ada6b5ea)

Reviewer: Is the application **GTK_ON_WINDOWS** also relevant? 

I think not. If I'm right then please blur it and let only **SWT_ON_WINDOWS** be visible.
